---
layout: post
title: Debian GNU/Linux Jessie and MS Windows 8.1
tags: [Debian, Linux]
---

My first computer was an Alaska Desktop shipped with Windows ME, years later when I started college I got a Dell Laptop XPS. That was the time when I heard about something called Linux, at first I thought it was just a nice penguin called Tux, months later I learned that it was more than just a penguin, it was the core of the greatest Operating System ever programmed, this kernel was created by a man called Linus Torvalds. Over the years I learned about something called Linux Distributions. My friend Julio handed me a version of Red Hat 9 (which could be considered as my first Linux), I installed it on my Desktop computer and then in my Dell Laptop.

I had been using Red Hat Linux for several months when I started to hang out with really passionate people. I visited the local Linux Users Group (LUG), that was the time when I learned about the GNU/Linux and all the philosophies behind, which eventually I started to support by sharing my ideas through conferences and talks. During that time the most powerful Distribution came to my hands, it is called Debian GNU/Linux. I had been using Debian for many years until last Christmas that I replaced my old Dell Laptop with a brand new Toshiba. I was looking for one of those laptops shipped with Ubuntu Linux pre-installed, I was not so lucky, I found one with Windows 8.1.

When I started using Windows again I said: "well it is not that bad, it has improved a lot", but..., after one month the Norton Antivirus expired, I remained optimistic and I said: "well, I can live without that". Everything was fine until one day. I was working comfortably at the office, when suddenly someone said: "whose is this book?, who is printing books?" (around 150 pages were printed). I noticed it was my book, my Windows 8.1 was printing my ebooks. I tried to clean the printer spooler, but it was useless, as soon as the network connection was turned on the printing started again. I deleted the configured printer and applied the first law of Windows (restarted the system)..., it did not solve the problem either. I stopped the chaos when I disabled the printer spooler, but the mystery remains unsolved, what caused the problem?,  was it a virus?, was it one of those many bugs on the system?, was it a revenge for many years of aversion?..., I will never know it. Eventually I restored the system to factory settings and everything was "almost fine again".

From that uncomfortable experience with Windows 8.1, I remembered how important is having control over the applications installed and running on the system, better yet the importance of my freedom (free as in speech not free as in beer). I started to find a way to install Debian in my Toshiba Laptop. Doing some research I found that it was impossible, because newest models implement a security boot system and only authorized operating systems can be bootable (Windows). Some Ubuntu Distributions use a valid registered key, I did not tested it, but in theory they can boot. My first thought regarding this security scheme was: "this is ridiculous, it is just marketing, they want me to use Windows and only Windows for the rest of my life". Fortunately my Toshiba comes with a BIOS in which is possible to disable this flag. Even though many people say that it is not possible to start the BIOS in an old fashion way, because there are only a few milliseconds at startup and it is not enough time to capture a key press. Once again I got lucky, I only had to press the key F1 and hold it for a few seconds. I found an option called Secure Boot and I set its value to disabled. Since the latest version of Debian comes with support for UEFI, I used the Network Installer without trouble and the boot loader (GRUB) was configured correctly with dual boot support.

Now I have Debian Jessie and Windows installed in my Toshiba, I can decide which one to start. I am using Debian for work or when I need certain degree of security and I will use Windows just for fun.

